 UK regulatory approach to cryptoassets and stablecoins.
What are cryptoassets?
1.11 A cryptoasset is understood to be a digital representation of value or contractual rights that can be transferred, stored or traded electronically, and which may (though does not necessarily) utilise cryptography, distributed ledger technology or similar technology.3 The term ‘token’ is used interchangeably with ‘cryptoasset’ hereafter.
2 Membership includes senior representatives from the Bank of England, Financial Conduct Authority and HM Treasury. It is also attended by the Payments Systems Regulator.
3 This description is largely aligned to definitions used in the government’s proposed extension of financial promotions regulation and the UK’s Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing regulations (though in contrast, does not specify that DLT and cryptography are necessary features).
 4
1.12 Cryptoassets could fulfil a diverse set of functions, ranging from the trading of digital collectibles to raising capital for new projects. No internationally agreed taxonomy or classification of cryptoassets exists. In 2019 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published its ‘Guidance on cryptoassets’ which described three broad categories of token in relation to how they fit within existing FCA regulation: e-money tokens, security tokens and unregulated tokens.4
• e-money tokens meet the definition of electronic money in the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (EMRs) – broadly, digital payment instruments that store value, can be redeemed at par value, at any time and offer holders a direct claim on the issuer
• security tokens have characteristics akin to specified investments, like a share or a debt instrument, as set out in UK legislation.5 Broadly, these are likely to be tokenised, digital forms of traditional securities. As with e- money tokens, these are already within the UK’s regulatory perimeter and therefore subject to FCA regulation
• unregulated tokens are neither e-money tokens nor security tokens and include:
• utility tokens: tokens used to buy a service, or access a DLT platform – this could, for example, include access to online cloud storage; and
• exchange tokens: tokens that are primarily used as a means of exchange – this includes widely known cryptoassets such as Bitcoin, Ether and XRP.
1.13 The FCA’s guidance also makes clear that many tokens can take a hybrid form and fall into different categories at different points in time – for example, they may initially be used to raise capital, then later be used primarily as a means of exchange.
1.14 High volatility has been a notable characteristic of many widely known exchange tokens, making them less suitable for payment purposes and more attractive to some holders as a high-risk speculative investment. In March 2018 the UK’s Financial Policy Committee (FPC) noted that ‘their values are currently too volatile to be widely used as a currency or a store of value and, with transaction costs high and settlement times slow, they are an inefficient media of exchange’. The FPC also stated that ‘as assets, they establish no claim on any future income streams or collateral. They have no intrinsic value beyond their currently limited potential to be adopted as money in the future, and hence could prove worthless’.
1.15 So-called ‘stablecoins’ are an evolution of cryptoassets, which seek to minimise volatility in value. Depending on design stablecoins can currently fall into any of the categories set out above – though are currently more likely to be unregulated exchange tokens or e-money tokens. Stablecoins aim
4 The definitions which underpin current payment systems regulation do not reflect the classification outlined in this section. Instead, systems are defined according to whether the arrangement facilitates the transfer of funds or money (alongside other relevant criteria). This is discussed in more detail in chapter three.
5 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO)
 5

to maintain stability in their price, typically in relation to stable assets such as fiat currency.6 Examples include Tether, Paxos or USD coin.
1.16 Design features vary, including how the stablecoin is backed or stabilised (for example, with financial assets or using an algorithm to increase or decrease the supply as needed to maintain a stable price). Other design features include the existence and nature of the token-holder’s claims on any assets referenced (e.g. whether or not a holder has legal rights to assets in the reserve) and the population of users able to hold the coin.
1.17 A stablecoin arrangement can consist of a number of different entities in a chain, conducting activities in relation to the issuance of tokens, redemption and stabilisation of the stablecoin, the exchange of the token, and the interaction with users. Opportunities and risks vary depending on these design features, scale of uptake and intended use.
1.18 The FCA’s classification of tokens above aimed to provide guidance on which tokens may lie within the FCA’s regulatory perimeter and may be subject to its regulation. However different classification methodologies exist, for example by categorising tokens according to their economic function (for example, ‘payment tokens and investment tokens’), or other relevant characteristics, such as the rights they confer to users. Classifications have also evolved in line with the changing nature of the market.
1.19 To provide continuity and clarity for market participants, the government proposes to maintain the FCA’s broad approach to classification as far as possible. However, to reflect the proposal to bring additional tokens and associated activities into regulation (as set out in chapter 2) the government is considering whether a new category of regulated tokens may be needed – stable tokens.
1.20 The regulated category of stable tokens would refer to tokens which stabilise their value by referencing one or more assets, such as fiat currency or a commodity (i.e. those commonly known as stablecoins) and could for that reason more reliably be used as a means of exchange or store of value. The category would also include other forms of tokenised payment and settlement assets, as well as tokenised forms of central bank money. Further detail on tokens in scope is set out in chapter 3.
1.21 In considering this classification, the government and other Cryptoassets Taskforce authorities recognise that whilst cryptoassets are typically underpinned by DLT, stable tokens could be designed using other types of technology. This classification is therefore agnostic on the technology underpinning its use (e.g. whether it relies on DLT or not).
1.22 The government recognises that a more granular classification or taxonomy of tokens could have benefits, for example in providing clarity for consumers and businesses as to what type of cryptoasset they are using and the benefits and risks that derive from it. However, given the rapidly evolving market and hybrid (sometimes fluid) nature of many tokens it is also important that any classification is future-proof and sufficiently flexible. The government invites views and responses on this issue.
Since the Cryptoassets Taskforce’s 2018 report, the government and UK authorities have taken a number of actions to address risks and support innovation arising from cryptoassets, including (but not limited to):7
• communicating minimum policy expectations for stablecoins (BoE, HMT) - these have been communicated through speeches and international reports,8 including the Financial Stability Board (FSB) report on stablecoin regulation and the G7’s global stablecoin working group report which stated that ‘no global stablecoin project should begin operation until the legal, regulatory and oversight challenges and risks... are adequately addressed, through appropriate designs and by adhering to regulation that is clear and proportionate to the risks’.9 They have also been set out by the UK’s Financial Policy Committee (see box 3A)10
• clarifying the regulatory perimeter (FCA) – this sets out when tokens are likely to be a specified investment under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 (RAO), including those that are a financial instrument under the second Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MIFID II), or e-money captured under the EMRs. Depending on the activity that will be undertaken, FCA authorisation or registration may be required
• implementing the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (HMT, FCA) – bringing custodian wallets providers and cryptoasset exchange providers into anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorist financing (CTF) regulation
• consulting on bringing a broader subset of cryptoassets within the FCA financial promotions regime (HMT) – if taken forward, this would apply to the promotion of relevant activities in relation to qualifying cryptoassets
• banning the sale, marketing and distribution of derivatives and exchange traded notes that reference certain types of cryptoasset to retail consumers (FCA) – finalised rules come into force 6 January 2021, restricting the sale, marketing and distribution of contracts for difference, futures, options and exchanged-traded notes referencing unregulated, transferable cryptoassets
• consumer warnings about cryptoasset scams (FCA) – as well as providing guidance on how consumers can protect themselves, the FCA also publishes a warning list of known firms running scams. In May 2019, the FCA (in conjunction with Action Fraud) reported that the number of reports of cryptoasset and forex investments scams tripled in 2018/19 (note, however, rising cryptoasset usage during this period)
• support for DLT-based services through the FCA sandbox (FCA) - the FCA continues to support innovative financial services firms through its various initiatives. This includes its Direct Support function, which provides regulatory feedback to firms, and its Regulatory Sandbox, which offers the opportunity to test products in a live environment with FCA oversight. Particularly in the Regulatory Sandbox, DLT has been, and continues to be, the most popular technology tested, with roughly a third of all firms using it to facilitate their products and services. DLT-based solutions tested in the Sandbox include payments, tokenisation of financial instruments, Digital ID and insurance intermediation. 
Objectives, principles and UK initiatives
2.1 HM Treasury and other Cryptoassets Taskforce authorities have identified a series of objectives and principles to guide the government’s approach to regulating cryptoassets. These are as follows:
Objectives
Protecting financial stability and market integrity. This includes maintaining the appropriate regulatory standards, ensuring infrastructure is operationally resilient and that safeguards are in place to mitigate any risks to financial stability.
Delivering robust consumer protections. This means ensuring consumers benefit from the same of level of protection they would when other regulated instruments are being used for the same purpose (e.g. payments).
Promoting competition, innovation and supporting UK competitiveness. This means continuing to encourage and support UK fintech firms, and ensuring consumers and businesses have access to a variety of high-quality services and products.
Principles
Maintaining the current division of UK regulator responsibilities as far as possible and applying the principle of ‘same risk, same regulatory outcome’. In doing so, the government will remain technology agnostic, while also considering whether the technology used gives rise to additional risks or equally where its use may mitigate risks. This supports the government’s desire to ensure a level playing field and reduce opportunities for
arbitrage. In practice, it means drawing on existing regulations and requirements insofar as they are applicable, with adjustments or additional requirements where needed to address specific characteristics or risks. The government will also seek to maintain as far as possible the current delineation of UK regulator responsibilities with respect to regulation of activities, including across the Bank of England, FCA and Payments System Regulator (PSR).
Ensuring the approach is proportionate, focussed on where risks and opportunities are most urgent or acute. UK authorities should
9
avoid applying disproportionate or overly burdensome regulation to entities particularly where end users are aware of risks or the activities do not give rise to financial stability risks. The government is therefore proposing to take an incremental, phased approach to regulatory adjustments (see chapter 3 for further detail on the sequencing of regulatory changes).
Ensuring the approach is agile, able to reflect international discussions and aligned to the future government approach to financial services and payments regulation. Given the cross-border nature of cryptoassets, the UK is committed to working with other jurisdictions and through the international standard-setting bodies to support harmonisation of treatment as far as is feasible. In doing so, the approach should allow for changes to reflect international discussions, including on equivalence where relevant. The government will also seek to ensure that the regulatory approach to cryptoassets coheres with the outcomes of the Payments Landscape Review and Future Regulatory Framework (FRF) Review, which are considering how the regulatory framework for financial services and payments need to adapt to be fit for the future.
